We applied a lot of steps to clean our queries, time to format the data format of that queries correctly,
let's see how we can do that.
So let's move to the first column first
where we will start with our data formatting and if we select that, we see that this column should be formatted
as a whole number because the country ID is a number
but if you look into that column, to that little symbol right here, you see that this ABC is probably
not a whole number
and if we left-click that, we see that it's actually text as it is displayed right here.
Now we should change that
and again, this format changing step is again something that can be done in multiple ways in Power BI desktop.
Now let me show you some of the ways how we can do that.
So we have the text that should be turned into a whole number
and the most intuitive thing is to simply press whole number right here
and as you can see, we turned that text,
so we had that ABC before into a whole number and we now also see that again in the applied steps, right
here.
So this is one way on how we can do that.
If we go to the third column because the second column as text is correct and select that, we can also
go to the transform ribbon right here and select the data type option
we can see right here
and if we select that, we see that we actually have the same menu that we had before but without the
symbols but the functionality is the same.
So if I select a whole number right here, we see that the symbol changed and that the formatting changed.
So this is good,
let's now continue our format change and we see that the age group is fine,
this is a text but as it just defines a range, we can leave it like that
but the last three columns are formatted wrong.
Now we could of course click all of the columns and then change the format manually
or we can do something else.
Let's first select all of the columns by selecting the first column, press and hold shift and select
the last column to select the whole range of those columns
and if we now go to the transform ribbon where we already are
and then we see that detect data type option,
this let's Power BI automatically detect and select the data type of the columns you selected.
Let's press that and we see that the format of the data was changed.
Now this is nice but now we have to do something else because now we changed data formats and we still
have to make sure that Power BI desktop doesn't create any errors because it might not have been able
to really transform all of the rows into the data format that we selected.
Now let's see if that worked correctly and to do that, we have to go to the home ribbon,
now go to close and apply but again, select the lower part to be able to specify what we want because
we can apply the changes,
this will apply that format change to the entire data that we have right here or we can close and apply,
then we would apply the changes and leave the query editor or we can just close that, then we would simply
go to the Data-Model and close the query editor without that changes being applied.
Now we have to press apply of course because we want to stay in the query editor and see if our changes
worked
so let's press apply, now this takes a few seconds and we see that we have an error.
Now let's see what happened by clicking on the view errors
and now we see that we have a new group right here,
we will talk about that soon and that we have errors in our dataset, in the population combined dataset,
so we had some data which were wrong and which could not be converted by then.
So we should get rid of those data and an easy way to do that is if we go back to the population combined
query and now you remember, we could not use that reduce errors function in the initial cleaning of the
second query because we had N/A's but not N/A's
in terms of an error that could be identified by Power BI desktop. Now we formatted the data and now
Power BI desktop is able to identify that rows as errors,
so let's try that.
So we are in the home ribbon, go to remove rows and remove errors,
let's see how this works.
So we press it and now if we now press apply again,
then this should be fine.
Let's do that, now again takes a few seconds and we see that we don't have any errors now,
so this worked. Let's now delete that group with the error because we don't need that by simply selecting
it and pressing delete and again delete,
so we will talk about that groups in a few seconds as I just said and select the population combined
dataset again
and now I want to make sure of something else because we had that errors
but remember back a few minutes,
we also saw that we have blank rows in that year column,
let's see if these are still here and let's filter them in case this is true.
So I'm selecting that error right here,
press load more and wait a few seconds and now we see we have that nulls and we don't need that nulls
because we want a clean database for our data model,
so let's unselect that nulls and press OK
and now we made sure that we have a clean dataset without errors and without any blank rows or null values.
So as we did this, we now formatted the data and we made a big step because of that
but still, I see things that I don't like. What that is,
let's see that in the next video.